.TH "Connecting, disconnecting from IRC server." 3 "31 Oct 2004" "libircclient" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Connecting, disconnecting from IRC server. \- 
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBirc_connect\fP (\fBirc_session_t\fP *session, const char *server, unsigned short port, const char *server_password, const char *nick, const char *username, const char *realname)"
.br
.RI "\fIInitiates a connection to IRC server.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBirc_disconnect\fP (\fBirc_session_t\fP *session)"
.br
.RI "\fIDisconnects a connection to IRC server.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBirc_is_connected\fP (\fBirc_session_t\fP *session)"
.br
.RI "\fIChecks whether the session is connecting/connected to the IRC server.\fP"
.in -1c
.SH "FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "int irc_connect (\fBirc_session_t\fP * session, const char * server, unsigned short port, const char * server_password, const char * nick, const char * username, const char * realname)"
.PP
Initiates a connection to IRC server.
.PP
\fBParameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIsession\fP\fP
A session to initiate connections on. Must not be NULL. 
.TP
\fB\fIserver\fP\fP
A domain name or an IP address of the IRC server to connect  to. Must not be NULL. 
.TP
\fB\fIport\fP\fP
An IRC server port, usually 6667. 
.TP
\fB\fIserver_password\fP\fP
An IRC server password, if the server requires it. May be NULL, in this case password will not be send to the  IRC server. 
.TP
\fB\fInick\fP\fP
A nick, which libircclient will use to login to the IRC server. Must not be NULL. 
.TP
\fB\fIusername\fP\fP
A username of the account, which is used to connect to the IRC server. This is for information only, will be shown in 'user properties' dialogs and returned by /whois request. May be NULL, in this case 'nobody' will be sent as username. 
.TP
\fB\fIrealname\fP\fP
A real name of the person, who connects to the IRC. Usually people put some wide-available information here (URL, small description or something else). This information also will  be shown in 'user properties' dialogs and returned by /whois  request. May be NULL, in this case 'noname' will be sent as  username.
.PP
\fBReturns: \fP
.in +1c
Return code 0 means success. Other value means error, the error  code may be obtained through \fBirc_errno()\fP. Any error, generated by the  IRC server, is available through \fBirc_callbacks_t::event_numeric\fP.This function prepares and initiates a connection to the IRC server. The connection is done asynchronously (see \fBirc_callbacks_t::event_connect\fP), so the success  return value means that connection was initiated (but not completed!) successfully.
.PP
\fBSee also: \fP
.in +1c
\fBirc_run\fP 
.SS "void irc_disconnect (\fBirc_session_t\fP * session)"
.PP
Disconnects a connection to IRC server.
.PP
\fBParameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIsession\fP\fP
An IRC session.
.PP
\fBReturns: \fP
.in +1c
Return code 0 means success. Other value means error, the error  code may be obtained through \fBirc_errno()\fP.This function closes the IRC connection. After that connection is closed, libircclient automatically leaves irc_run loop.
.PP
\fBSee also: \fP
.in +1c
\fBirc_connect\fP \fBirc_run\fP 
.SS "int irc_is_connected (\fBirc_session_t\fP * session)"
.PP
Checks whether the session is connecting/connected to the IRC server.
.PP
\fBParameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIsession\fP\fP
An initialized IRC session.
.PP
\fBReturns: \fP
.in +1c
Return code 1 means that session is connecting or connected to the IRC server, zero value means that the session has been disconnected.
.PP
\fBSee also: \fP
.in +1c
\fBirc_connect\fP \fBirc_run\fP 
